<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XIX: The Lady Rages</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="book-2" id="chapter-19" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIX</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">The Lady Rages</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Dora Grayling stood in the doorway.</p>
			<p>“I told your servant he need not trouble to show me in⁠—and I’ve come without my aunt. I hope I’m not intruding.”</p>
			<p>She was⁠—confoundedly; and it was on the tip of my tongue to tell her so. She came into the room, with twinkling eyes, looking radiantly happy⁠—that sort of look which makes even a plain young woman prepossessing.</p>
			<p>“Am I intruding?⁠—I believe I am.”</p>
			<p>She held out her hand, while she was still a dozen feet away, and when I did not at once dash forward to make a clutch at it, she shook her head and made a little mouth at me.</p>
			<p>“What’s the matter with you?⁠—Aren’t you well?”</p>
			<p>I was not well⁠—I was very far from well. I was as unwell as I could be without being positively ill, and any person of common discernment would have perceived it at a glance. At the same time I was not going to admit anything of the kind to her.</p>
			<p>“Thank you⁠—I am perfectly well.”</p>
			<p>“Then, if I were you, I would endeavour to become imperfectly well; a little imperfection in that direction might make you appear to more advantage.”</p>
			<p>“I am afraid that that I am not one of those persons who ever do appear to much advantage⁠—did I not tell you so last night?”</p>
			<p>“I believe you did say something of the kind⁠—it’s very good of you to remember. Have you forgotten something else which you said to me last night?”</p>
			<p>“You can hardly expect me to keep fresh in my memory all the follies of which my tongue is guilty.”</p>
			<p>“Thank you.⁠—That is quite enough.⁠—Good day.”</p>
			<p>She turned as if to go.</p>
			<p>“Miss Grayling!”</p>
			<p>“<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Atherton?”</p>
			<p>“What’s the matter?⁠—What have I been saying now?”</p>
			<p>“Last night you invited me to come and see you this morning⁠—is that one of the follies of which your tongue was guilty?”</p>
			<p>The engagement had escaped my recollection⁠—it is a fact⁠—and my face betrayed me.</p>
			<p>“You had forgotten?” Her cheeks flamed; her eyes sparkled. “You must pardon my stupidity for not having understood that the imitation was of that general kind which is never meant to be acted on.”</p>
			<p>She was halfway to the door before I stopped her⁠—I had to take her by the shoulder to do it.</p>
			<p>“Miss Grayling!⁠—You are hard on me.”</p>
			<p>“I suppose I am.⁠—Is anything harder than to be intruded on by an undesired, and unexpected, guest?”</p>
			<p>“Now you are harder still.⁠—If you knew what I have gone through since our conversation of last night, in your strength you would be merciful.”</p>
			<p>“Indeed?⁠—What have you gone through?”</p>
			<p>I hesitated. What I actually had gone through I certainly did not propose to tell her. Other reasons apart I did not desire to seem madder than I admittedly am⁠—and I lacked sufficient plausibility to enable me to concoct, on the spur of the moment, a plain tale of the doings of my midnight visitor which would have suggested that the narrator was perfectly sane. So I fenced⁠—or tried to.</p>
			<p>“For one thing⁠—I have had no sleep.”</p>
			<p>I had not⁠—not one single wink. When I did get between the sheets, “all night I lay in agony,” I suffered from that worst form of nightmare⁠—the nightmare of the man who is wide awake. There was continually before my fevered eyes the strange figure of that Nameless Thing. I had often smiled at tales of haunted folk⁠—here was I one of them. My feelings were not rendered more agreeable by a strengthening conviction that if I had only retained the normal attitude of a scientific observer I should, in all probability, have solved the mystery of my Oriental friend, and that his example of the genus of <i epub:type="z3998:taxonomy">copridae</i> might have been pinned⁠—by a very large pin!⁠—on a piece⁠—a monstrous piece!⁠—of cork. It was galling to reflect that he and I had played together a game of bluff⁠—a game at which civilisation was once more proved to be a failure.</p>
			<p>She could not have seen all this in my face; but she saw something⁠—because her own look softened.</p>
			<p>“You do look tired.” She seemed to be casting about in her own mind for a cause. “You have been worrying.” She glanced round the big laboratory. “Have you been spending the night in this⁠—wizard’s cave?”</p>
			<p>“Pretty well.”</p>
			<p>“Oh!”</p>
			<p>The monosyllable, as she uttered it, was big with meaning. Uninvited, she seated herself in an armchair, a huge old thing, of shagreen leather, which would have held half a dozen of her. Demure in it she looked, like an agreeable reminiscence, alive, and a little up-to-date, of the women of long ago. Her dove grey eyes seemed to perceive so much more than they cared to show.</p>
			<p>“How is it that you have forgotten that you asked me to come?⁠—didn’t you mean it?”</p>
			<p>“Of course I meant it.”</p>
			<p>“Then how is it you’ve forgotten?”</p>
			<p>“I didn’t forget.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t tell fibs.⁠—Something is the matter⁠—tell me what it is.⁠—Is it that I am too early?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing of the sort⁠—you couldn’t be too early.”</p>
			<p>“Thank you.⁠—When you pay a compliment, even so neat an one as that, sometimes, you should look as if you meant it.⁠—It is early⁠—I know it’s early, but afterwards I want you to come to lunch. I told aunt that I would bring you back with me.”</p>
			<p>“You are much better to me than I deserve.”</p>
			<p>“Perhaps.” A tone came into her voice which was almost pathetic. “I think that to some men women are almost better than they deserve. I don’t know why. I suppose it pleases them. It is odd.” There was a different intonation⁠—a dryness. “Have you forgotten what I came for?”</p>
			<p>“Not a bit of it⁠—I am not quite the brute I seem. You came to see an illustration of that pleasant little fancy of mine for slaughtering my fellows. The fact is, I’m hardly in a mood for that just now⁠—I’ve been illustrating it too much already.”</p>
			<p>“What do you mean?”</p>
			<p>“Well, for one thing it’s been murdering Lessingham’s cat.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Lessingham’s cat?”</p>
			<p>“Then it almost murdered Percy Woodville.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Atherton!⁠—I wish you wouldn’t talk like that.”</p>
			<p>“It’s a fact. It was a question of a little matter in a wrong place, and, if it hadn’t been for something very like a miracle, he’d be dead.”</p>
			<p>“I wish you wouldn’t have anything to do with such things⁠—I hate them.”</p>
			<p>I stared.</p>
			<p>“Hate them?⁠—I thought you’d come to see an illustration.”</p>
			<p>“And pray what was your notion of an illustration?”</p>
			<p>“Well, another cat would have had to be killed, at least.”</p>
			<p>“And do you suppose that I would have sat still while a cat was being killed for my⁠—edification?”</p>
			<p>“It needn’t necessarily have been a cat, but something would have had to be killed⁠—how are you going to illustrate the death-dealing propensities of a weapon of that sort without it?”</p>
			<p>“Is it possible that you imagine that I came here to see something killed?”</p>
			<p>“Then for what did you come?”</p>
			<p>I do not know what there was about the question which was startling, but as soon as it was out, she went a fiery red.</p>
			<p>“Because I was a fool.”</p>
			<p>I was bewildered. Either she had got out of the wrong side of bed, or I had⁠—or we both had. Here she was, assailing me, hammer and tongs, so far as I could see, for absolutely nothing.</p>
			<p>“You are pleased to be satirical at my expense.”</p>
			<p>“I should not dare. Your detection of me would be so painfully rapid.”</p>
			<p>I was in no mood for jangling. I turned a little away from her. Immediately she was at my elbow.</p>
			<p>“<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Atherton?”</p>
			<p>“Miss Grayling.”</p>
			<p>“Are you cross with me?”</p>
			<p>“Why should I be? If it pleases you to laugh at my stupidity you are completely justified.”</p>
			<p>“But you are not stupid.”</p>
			<p>“No?⁠—Nor you satirical.”</p>
			<p>“You are not stupid⁠—you know you are not stupid; it was only stupidity on my part to pretend that you were.”</p>
			<p>“It is very good of you to say so.⁠—But I fear that I am an indifferent host. Although you would not care for an illustration, there may be other things which you might find amusing.”</p>
			<p>“Why do you keep on snubbing me?”</p>
			<p>“I keep on snubbing you!”</p>
			<p>“You are always snubbing me⁠—you know you are. Sometimes I feel as if I hated you.”</p>
			<p>“Miss Grayling!”</p>
			<p>“I do! I do! I do!”</p>
			<p>“After all, it is only natural.”</p>
			<p>“That is how you talk⁠—as if I were a child, and you were⁠—oh I don’t know what.⁠—Well, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Atherton, I am sorry to be obliged to leave you. I have enjoyed my visit very much. I only hope I have not seemed too intrusive.”</p>
			<p>She flounced⁠—“flounce” was the only appropriate word!⁠—out of the room before I could stop her. I caught her in the passage.</p>
			<p>“Miss Grayling, I entreat you⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Pray do not entreat me, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Atherton.” Standing still she turned to me. “I would rather show myself to the door as I showed myself in, but, if that is impossible, might I ask you not to speak to me between this and the street?”</p>
			<p>The hint was broad enough, even for me. I escorted her through the hall without a word⁠—in perfect silence she shook the dust of my abode from off her feet.</p>
			<p>I had made a pretty mess of things. I felt it as I stood on the top of the steps and watched her going⁠—she was walking off at four miles an hour; I had not even ventured to ask to be allowed to call a hansom.</p>
			<p>It was beginning to occur to me that this was a case in which another blow upon the river might be, to say the least of it, advisable⁠—and I was just returning into the house with the intention of putting myself into my flannels, when a cab drew up, and old Lindon got out of it.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
